Swagger supports the ability to mock APIs
Let's take a look at this feature in action.
by clicking on the view documentation
where we can go ahead and execute
a request against this API operation.
You'll notice that we are able to see the response
provided back from the API and that's because SwaggerHub
is providing this virtual server that's mocking the API.
So, if we grab this URL and we copy it and put it
into the browser, you'll notice
that we get some JSON returned.
So if you're an API consumer of this API,
you can go ahead and program against this contract
while the API implementation is being developed.
Now, if we navigate back to MYhub and look at
our catalog API, we can go into the Swagger UI docs
and if we take a look at one of these operations on the API,
you'll notice our try it now button is missing,
and that's because we imported this API definition,
and during the import, SwaggerHub
doesn't stand up the auto mocking feature.
So let's see how we can put it in place in this situation.
So the first thing that we'll do is click on
the name of the API and then we can click on integrations.
Using this dropdown, we can select
from several integrations that SwaggerHub provides.
In our case, we need the API auto mocking integration,
so we'll go ahead and select it and then click on add.
At this point, we can now provide a name
for the integration, so let's just call it auto mocking,
and then we can create the integration,
and it's now in place, and we can take a look at
its configuration because there's
an important section here that we need.
You'll notice that it says it automatically creates
a mock for this API, and then it specifies
the format of the URL for the mock.
So let's go ahead and copy that because we need to add
a server definition into our API.
So, at the top of the catalog API,
we're going to go ahead and specify the servers property,
and then inside of the servers property,
we can specify a description, so let's say
this is the SwaggerHub API auto mocking server,
and then we go ahead and provide a URL,
and here is where we need to complete
some of the these template parameters within the URL.
Now, you'll notice it requires
the owner, the API, and the version.
Conveniently, those are found within the URL of the editor,
so let's just go ahead and copy that,
and then we can put this in place
by pasting that into our API definition,
and now if we view our documentation,
we can expand one of our API operations,
oops, it's still missing, so let's go ahead
and save this in order for it to take place, okay.
With that saved, now we can preview the docs,
and if we expand one of the API operations,
we now see that the try it out feature is available
and we can go ahead and execute a request
against a mocked version of our API implementation,
and there we see the response.
So we can go ahead and grab that URL,
and we'll test that out within the browser as well
just to make sure everything's working,
and once again if we were an API consumer,
we could perform development against this virtual server
which provides mocking of our API.